---
title: Release notes of the 3.4.4 version of `TFEL`, `MFront` and `MTest`
author: Thomas Helfer
date: 21/09/2021
lang: en-EN
numbersections: true
documentclass: article
from: markdown+tex_math_single_backslash
geometry:
  - margin=2cm
papersize: a4
link-citations: true
colorlinks: true
figPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
tblPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
secPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
eqnPrefixTemplate: "($$i$$)"
---

The page describes the new functionalities of Version 3.4.4 of the
`TFEL` project.

# New features of `mfront`

## Alternative way to select a single material knowledge (material property, behaviour, model) in a `madnex` file {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront:mandex_full_path}

`mfront`, `mfront-query` and `mfront-doc` now allow to select a specific
material knowledge inside a `madnex` file using the following syntax:

~~~~
madnex:<file>:<type>:<material>:<name>
~~~~

where:

- `<file>` is the path to the `madnex` file.
- `<type>` is the type of the material knowledge (`material_property`,
  `behaviour` or `model`).
- `<material>` is the name of the material considered. This name can be
  empty or `<none>` if the considered material knowledge is not
  associated to a material.
- `<name>` is the name of theconsidered material knowledge.

### Example of usage

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront --obuild --interface=generic madnex:Plasticity.mdnx:behaviour::Plasticity
~~~~

or, equivalently:

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront --obuild --interface=generic madnex:Plasticity.mdnx:behaviour:"<none>":Plasticity
~~~~

# New features of `mtest`

## Imposed inner radius loading in pipe modelling

`PTest` now supports imposing the evolution of the inner radius of the pipe.

### Example of usage

The following code shows how to impose the evolution of the inner radius
of the pipe:

~~~~{.cxx}
@RadialLoading 'ImposedInnerRadius';
@InnerRadiusEvolution{0 : 4.2e-3, 1 : 4.3e-3};
~~~~

# New features of `mfront-query`

## New `--list-implementation-paths` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_implementation_paths}

The `--list-implementation-paths` query returns explicit paths to
material knowledge in a `madnex` file. This query has two options:

- `sorted-by-files` (default): the implementations paths are preceded by
  the `madnex` file name.
- `unsorted`: the implementations paths are not preceded by the `madnex`
  file name.

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront-query --list-implementation-paths=unsorted --all-behaviours Plasticity.mdnx
madnex:Plasticity.mdnx:behaviour::Plasticity
~~~~

See also Section @sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront:mandex_full_path.

## New `--list-materials` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_materials}

The `--list-materials` returns the list of materials for which material
knowledge is defined inside a [`madnex file`](madnex.html).

If a material knowledge is not associated to a material, the special
identifier `<none>` is returned.

## Better `--list-material-properties` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_materials_properties}

The `--list-material-properties` query can now have an option:

- `sorted-by-materials` (default): which returns the material properties sorted
  by materials
- `unsorted`: which returns all the material properties to be generated

## Better `--list-behaviours` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_behaviours}

The `--list-behaviours` query can now have an option:

- `sorted-by-materials` (default): which returns the behaviours sorted
  by materials
- `unsorted`: which returns all the behaviours to be generated

## Better `--list-models` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_models}

The `--list-models` query can now have an option:

- `sorted-by-materials` (default): which returns the models sorted
  by materials
- `unsorted`: which returns all the models to be generated

## Better `--generated-sources` query {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:generated_sources}

The `--generated-sources` query can now have an option:

- `sorted-by-libraries` (default): which returns the sources to be
  generated associated with each library
- `unsorted`: which returns all the sources to be generated

This option may be used in conjunction with the `--nomelt` option.

## Retrieve the sources associated with specific targets {#sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:specific_target_generated_sources}

`mfront-query` now have two new queries:

- `--specific-target-generated-sources` which allows to retrieve the
  sources generated by a specific target
- `--all-specific-targets-generated-source`, which displays all the
  sources associated with specific targets

By default, all sources associated with libraries dependencies of the
specific targets are also displayed, unless the `--nomelt` command line
argument is used.

# Issues solved

## Issue #98: [mfront-query] add query to retrieve all implementation paths

This feature is described in Section
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_implementation_paths

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/98>

## Issue #97: [mfront] Allow to specify the full path to a material knowledge (material property, behaviour, model) in a `madnex` file on the command line

This feature is described in Section
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront:mandex_full_path.

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/97>

## Issue #96: [mfront] Add support to the `--all-material-properties`, `--all-behaviours`, `--all-models` to the `parsePathSpecifierArguments`  function for consistency with `mfront`

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/96>

## Issue #87: Better `--list-material-properties`, `--list-behaviours` and `--list-models queries`

Theses features are described in Sections
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_materials_properties,
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_behaviours and
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_models.

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/87>

## Issue #86: [mfront-query] new `--list-materials` query

This feature is described in Section
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:list_materials.

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/86>

## Issue #85: [mfront] Support for the `.mdnx` file extension for `madnex` files

For more details, see : <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/85>

## Issue #68: [mfront-query] Add a `--dsl-target` option

`mfront-query` now have `--dsl-target` option which returns the kind of
material knowledge described by a file (material property, behaviour, or
model).

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/68>.

## Issue #67: [mfront-query] Add a `--has-model-query` option enhancement

`mfront-query` now have `--has-model-query` option that can be used as
follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront-query --has-model-query=class-name
~~~~

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/67>.

￼
￼
## Issue #66: [mfront-query] Add a `--has-material-property-query` option enhancement

`mfront-query` now have `--has-material-property-query` option that can
be used as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront-query --has-material-property-query=class-name
~~~~

￼
For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/66>.

￼
## Issue #65: [mfront-query] Add a `--has-behaviour-query` option enhancement

`mfront-query` now have `--has-behaviour-query` option that can be used
as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ mfront-query --has-behaviour-query=class-name
~~~~

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/65>.

## Issue #64: [mfront-query] Add a query for the class name

`mfront-query` now has a `--class-name` query which works for material
properties, behaviours and models.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/64>.

## Issue #63: [mfront-query] Add a query for the behaviour name

`mfront-query` now has:

- a `--law-name` query for material properties.
- a `--behaviour-name` query for behaviours.
- a `--model-name` query for models.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/63>.

## Issue #62: [tfel-config] add a `--quiet-failure` option

In case of errors, `tfel-config` with the the `--quiet-failure` option
just fails without displaying all the available options nor error
message.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/62>.

## Issue #59: [mfront-doc] add a standalone option

By default, the generated markdown uses a section to describe a
behaviour. Using the `--standalone` option, `mfront-doc` generates a
standalone document.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/59>.

## Issue #49: [mfront-query] query sources related to specific targets

See Section
@sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:specific_target_generated_sources for a
description of the `--specific-target-generated-sources` and
`--all-specific-targets-generated-source` queries.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/40>.

## Issue #40: [mfront-query] return all the generated sources (not sorted by library)

See Section @sec:tfel-3.4.4:mfront-query:generated_sources for a
description of the new features of the `--generated-sources` query.

For more details, see <https://github.com/thelfer/tfel/issues/40>.
